# How Palantir AIP Supports Polaris In Its Anti-Human-Trafficking Work

- I picked this article because it shows how Palantir’s Artificial Intelligence Platform (AIP) is helping non-profit originations solves humanitarian issues. Palantir is known for providing its AI and software services to governments and corporations, but how it is helping Polaris, an anti-trafficking organization, to provide support to victims, gather and analyze data, and use public campaigns to raise awareness isn’t something shown to the public. The main usages of AIP towards Polaris’s mission are assisting in prototyping a new customizable user interface, developing an AI-powered data extraction system, and creating real time data visualization. These projects help ensure that Polaris is using the most appropriate and efficient platform to help find people in need, come up with the best procedures, and raise public awareness through technology. Palantir itself cannot help solving human trafficking, but it can help these organizations on the technology front very well. Another key issue that Palantir is helping is data privacy. In this specific context, Palantir is taking full responsibility for holding and executing this highly sensitive information of very vulnerable individuals. While the article did not address the details of how Palantir is ensuring the data privacy, its reputation with handling top governments data is a good indicator of the firm’s software and security capabilities. https://blog.palantir.com/how-palantir-aip-supports-polaris-in-its-anti-human-trafficking-work-c604830bcb80


I never knew Palantir had a project like this! With all the companies implementing AI these days, I still never thought about its utility in these kinds of databases, but I'm glad that these companies are putting their models to use in this kind of way. Is Polaris the only anti-trafficking org that Palantir works with, or does it plan to collaborate with more organizations to increase their database?
-Arnav Nayak